# MSLS
Minority stressors and the life satisfaction of sexual minority adults

According to minority stress theory, minority stressors (e.g., discrimination, internalized homophobia) negatively impact sexual minorities’ life satisfaction by acting as an additional burden to general stress. Individual differences in their life satisfaction are thought to be related to the frequency of minority stress. Despite these adverse effects, minority stress theory suggests that social support, LGBTQ+ community connectedness, and the centrality of one’s sexual identity to the self may moderate these impacts. We tested the assumptions of minority stress theory by examining the effects of three external (discrimination, stigmatization, victimization), two internal (internalized homophobia, identity concealment), and a measure of general stress on life satisfaction in an American sample of 1507 sexual minority adults. We additionally examined the moderating role of the aforementioned moderators highlighted in minority stress theory. We conducted a mega-analysis using specification curve analysis to estimate multiple linear regression models to examine the robustness of all these effects. We found that discrimination, stigmatization, and identity concealment negatively impacted life satisfaction. Minority stressors did, however, explain additional variance in life satisfaction when accounting for more general stress. Finally, we found that proposed moderators played no role in the influence of minority stressors. Discussion centers around our findings of minority stress and contextualizing sexual minority experiences.
